1-What is the purpose of your password manager application?
It securely stores and manages user credentials, ensuring data encryption and safe retrieval.

2-How did you structure your backend architecture?
I used a RESTful API architecture with endpoints for CRUD operations, connected to MongoDB for data storage.

3-How do you ensure the security of stored passwords?
Passwords are encrypted using hashing algorithms like bcrypt before storing them in the database.

4-What tools did you use for testing your API?
I used Postman to test API endpoints for functionality, error handling, and performance.


MongoDB-Specific Questions:

1-Why did you choose MongoDB for this project?
MongoDB's schema flexibility and JSON-like document structure make it ideal for storing user data and credentials.

2-How do you structure your MongoDB collections for this application?
I have collections like users for user details and passwords for storing encrypted credentials.

3-How do you ensure data consistency in MongoDB?
I use validation rules in the schema and implement transactions for critical operations.

4-What is the purpose of your password manager application?
It securely stores and manages user credentials, ensuring data encryption and safe retrieval.

5-How did you structure your backend architecture?
I used a RESTful API architecture with endpoints for CRUD operations, connected to MongoDB for data storage.

6-How do you ensure the security of stored passwords?
Passwords are encrypted using hashing algorithms like bcrypt before storing them in the database.

7-What tools did you use for testing your API?
I used Postman to test API endpoints for functionality, error handling, and performance.


MongoDB-Specific Questions:

1-Why did you choose MongoDB for this project?
MongoDB's schema flexibility and JSON-like document structure make it ideal for storing user data and credentials.

2-How do you structure your MongoDB collections for this application?
I have collections like users for user details and passwords for storing encrypted credentials.

3-How do you ensure data consistency in MongoDB?
I use validation rules in the schema and implement transactions for critical operations.

4-How do you query a user's stored passwords in MongoDB?
  db.passwords.find({ userId: "user123" });
  This query retrieves all passwords associated with a specific user ID.

5-How do you handle large datasets in MongoDB?
I use indexing for faster queries and pagination for efficient data retrieval.


Backend and Security Questions:

1-How do you authenticate users in your application?
I use JWT (JSON Web Tokens) for secure user authentication and session management.

2-How do you handle sensitive data in transit?
I use HTTPS for secure communication and encrypt sensitive data before sending it.

3-What measures do you take to prevent SQL/NoSQL injection?
I use parameterized queries and sanitize user inputs to prevent injection attacks.

4-How do you implement role-based access control (RBAC)?
I assign roles to users and validate their permissions before granting access to specific endpoints.


API and Performance Questions:

1-How do you handle API rate limiting?
I use middleware like express-rate-limit to restrict the number of requests per user.

2-How do you optimize MongoDB queries for performance?
I use indexing, aggregation pipelines, and avoid unnecessary queries to improve performance.

3-How do you handle errors in your API?
I use centralized error-handling middleware in Express to catch and respond with appropriate HTTP status codes.

4-How do you implement pagination in your API?
db.passwords.find({ userId: "user123" }).skip(10).limit(10);
This query retrieves a specific range of results for pagination.


Deployment and Scalability Questions:

1-How would you scale your application?
I would use horizontal scaling with load balancers and implement database sharding in MongoDB.

2-How do you deploy your application?
I deploy it using platforms like AWS or Heroku, with Docker for containerization.

3-How do you monitor your application's performance?
I use tools like MongoDB Atlas monitoring and application performance monitoring (APM) tools like New Relic.


Miscellaneous:

1-What challenges did you face while building this project?
Managing secure password storage and optimizing database queries were the main challenges.

2-How do you handle database migrations or schema changes in MongoDB?
I use versioning and scripts to migrate data and update schemas without downtime.

3-What is the difference between find() and aggregate() in MongoDB?
find() retrieves documents based on a query, while aggregate() performs advanced data processing using pipelines.

4-How do you back up your MongoDB database?
I use MongoDB's mongodump and mongorestore tools for backups and restoration.

5-How do you ensure your application is fault-tolerant?
I implement retry mechanisms, use replica sets in MongoDB, and handle exceptions gracefully.


SERVER.JS file question and assign

1. What is the purpose of the express module in your project?
Express is a Node.js web framework that simplifies building REST APIs by providing routing and middleware support.

2. Why do you use body-parser middleware?
body-parser parses incoming request bodies in JSON format, making it easy to access data sent from the client in req.body.

3. What is the role of cors in your application?
cors enables Cross-Origin Resource Sharing, allowing your API to be accessed from different domains, which is essential for frontend-backend communication.

4. How do you connect to MongoDB in this file?
I use the MongoClient from the mongodb package, connecting with a URI from environment variables for security and flexibility.

5. How do you handle environment variables in your project?
I use the dotenv package to load sensitive configuration like database URIs and names from a .env file, keeping them out of the codebase.

6. What does the app.get('/') endpoint do?
It retrieves all documents from the passwords collection in MongoDB and returns them as a JSON array to the client.

7. How does the app.post('/') endpoint work?
It accepts a password object in the request body and inserts it into the passwords collection, returning the result of the operation.

8. How is the app.delete('/') endpoint implemented?
It deletes a password document matching the request body from the passwords collection and returns the result.

9. How do you start the server, and on which port does it run?
The server starts with app.listen(port) and listens on port 3000, as defined in the code.

10. How do you ensure your API can be tested with tools like Postman?
By using standard HTTP methods (GET, POST, DELETE) and JSON payloads, the API is easily testable with Postman.

11. What are some improvements you could make to this backend?
I could add authentication, input validation, error handling, and encrypt passwords before storing them for better security.

12. How would you handle errors in your current endpoints?
I would use try-catch blocks in each async route and send appropriate error responses to the client.

13. Why is it important to use environment variables for database credentials?
It keeps sensitive information secure and allows easy configuration changes without modifying the code.

14. How does MongoDB store data in this application?
Data is stored as documents in the passwords collection, with each document representing a password entry.

15. How would you delete a password by its unique ID?
I would use deleteOne({ _id: ObjectId(id) }) to target the document by its MongoDB ObjectId.